Keen Sight : The hippogriff has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 

Flyby : The owl doesn't provoke opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. 

Amphibious : The toad can breathe air and water 

Keen Smell : The tiger has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. 

Keen Hearing and Smell : The wolf has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. 

Sunlight Sensitivity : While in sunlight, the specter has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 

Beast of Burden : The mule is considered to be a Large animal for the purpose of determining its carrying capacity. 

Fey Ancestry : The drow has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep. 

Innate Spellcasting : The dryad's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The dryad can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:

At will: druidcraft
3/day each: entangle, goodberry
1/day each: barkskin, pass without trace, shillelagh 

Antimagic Susceptibility : The armor is incapacitated while in the area of an antimagic field. If targeted by dispel magic, the armor must succeed on a Constitution saving throw against the caster's spell save DC or fall unconscious for 1 minute. 

False Appearance : While the armor remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal suit of armor. 

Echolocation : The darkmantle can't use its blindsight while deafened. 

Keen Hearing : The swarm has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing. 

Standing Leap : The toad's long jump is up to 20 ft. and its high jump is up to 10 ft., with or without a running start. 

Keen Hearing and Sight : The scout has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight. 

Spider Climb : The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. 

Web Sense : While in contact with a web, the spider knows the exact location of any other creature in contact with the same web. 

Web Walker : The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. 

Nimble Escape : The goblin can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of its turns. 

Blind Senses : The grimlock can't use its blindsight while deafened and unable to smell. 

Stone Camouflage : The gnome has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in rocky terrain. 

Keen Senses : The pseudodragon has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight, hearing, or smell. 

Limited Telepathy : The pseudodragon can magically communicate simple ideas, emotions, and images telepathically with any creature within 100 ft. of it that can understand a language. 

Swarm : The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny quipper. The swarm can't regain hit points or gain temporary hit points. 

Undead Fortitude : If damage reduces the zombie to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5+the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the zombie drops to 1 hit point instead. 

Hold Breath : While out of water, the octopus can hold its breath for 1 hour. 

Water Breathing : The swarm can breathe only underwater. 

Amorphous : The shadow can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. 

Corrode Metal : Any nonmagical weapon made of metal that hits the ooze corrodes. After dealing damage, the weapon takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty to damage rolls. If its penalty drops to -5, the weapon is destroyed. Nonmagical ammunition made of metal that hits the ooze is destroyed after dealing damage.
The ooze can eat through 2-inch-thick, nonmagical metal in 1 round. 

Martial Advantage : Once per turn, the hobgoblin can deal an extra 7 (2d6) damage to a creature it hits with a weapon attack if that creature is within 5 ft. of an ally of the hobgoblin that isn't incapacitated. 

Ignited Illumination : As a bonus action, the magmin can set itself ablaze or extinguish its flames. While ablaze, the magmin sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 ft. 

Aggressive : As a bonus action, the orc can move up to its speed toward a hostile creature that it can see. 

Iron Scent : The rust monster can pinpoint, by scent, the location of ferrous metal within 30 feet of it. 

Rust Metal : Any nonmagical weapon made of metal that hits the rust monster corrodes. After dealing damage, the weapon takes a permanent and cumulative -1 penalty to damage rolls. If its penalty drops to -5, the weapon is destroyed. Nonmagical ammunition made of metal that hits the rust monster is destroyed after dealing damage. 

Blood Frenzy : The swarm has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn't have all its hit points. 

Limited Amphibiousness : The sahuagin can breathe air and water, but it needs to be submerged at least once every 4 hours to avoid suffocating. 

Shark Telepathy : The sahuagin can magically command any shark within 120 feet of it, using a limited telepathy. 

Shadow Stealth : While in dim light or darkness, the shadow can take the Hide action as a bonus action. Its stealth bonus is also improved to +6. 

Sunlight Weakness : While in sunlight, the shadow has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. 

Trampling Charge : If the horse moves at least 20 ft. straight toward a creature and then hits it with a hooves attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the horse can make another attack with its hooves against it as a bonus action. 

Surprise Attack : If the bugbear surprises a creature and hits it with an attack during the first round of combat, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) damage from the attack. 

Two-Headed : The dog has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, or knocked unconscious. 

Speak with Beasts and Plants : The dryad can communicate with beasts and plants as if they shared a language. 

Tree Stride : Once on her turn, the dryad can use 10 ft. of her movement to step magically into one living tree within her reach and emerge from a second living tree within 60 ft. of the first tree, appearing in an unoccupied space within 5 ft. of the second tree. Both trees must be large or bigger. 

Underwater Camouflage : The octopus has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made while underwater. 

Keen Sight and Smell : The vulture has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight or smell. 

Shapechanger : The quasit can use its action to polymorph into a beast form that resembles a bat (speed 10 ft. fly 40 ft.), a centipede (40 ft., climb 40 ft.), or a toad (40 ft., swim 40 ft.), or back into its true form . Its statistics are the same in each form, except for the speed changes noted. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed . It reverts to its true form if it dies. 

Devil's Sight : Magical darkness doesn't impede the imp's darkvision. 

Running Leap : With a 10-foot running start, the lion can long jump up to 25 ft.. 

Incorporeal Movement : The specter can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. 

Cunning Action : On each of its turns, the spy can use a bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. 

Sneak Attack (1/Turn) : The spy deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage when it hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 ft. of an ally of the spy that isn't incapacitated and the spy doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. 

